all right let's get really granular here
and talk about the metabolic therapy so
if somebody were to have a brain tumor
we'll use the glioblastoma like you
mentioned earlier
we know glutamine and and eliminating
that plus eliminating glucose is part of
the treatment
let's talk really again on a granular
level what that looks like how does
somebody begin to to do that through
diet and drugs well yeah the first thing
the first thing now the GBM it's a it's
a it's a call on the surgeon they have
to make a decision because some GBM if
it's not operated on immediately it
could herniate and kill that patient
very very quickly so everything is a
judgment call on the part of the surgeon
the surgeon has to do MRI
a variety of different uh
uh scans uh to evaluate where that tumor
is the size of it if it's impacting uh
not all the time but many times you have
a watchful waiting period before you
have to have the tumor removed
surgically we're not we're not against
you've got to we uh there's thousands of
articles I wouldn't say thousands
hundreds of articles in the scientific
literature showing that the more I can
debunk to get rid of it the longer the
patient will survive no question about
that the issue of course is that if you
have a watchful waiting period this is
an angry mess and I'm not talking I
could be talking about liver cancer I
could be talking about bladder uh colon
lung they all have a lot of inflammation
in the micro environment a lot of it's
kind of bloody bloody and angry inflamed
and all this kind of stuff uh you you
want to reduce local inflammation as
best you can so that when you do the
surgical debulking you have more sharp
edges around that tumor and that when
you do the debulking you're going to get
a lot more of the tumor than if you go
into go after this tumor like a bull in
a in a china shop because you're going
to create a mess and that mess is going
to elicit these tumor cells to invade
and disseminate through the brain so you
really want to get as many tumor cells
back into the Central Mass as possible
and you can do that by what are only
fasting extremely restricted ketogenic
diets you can get the inflammation in
that to be less than it is you make the
mass less angry less inflamed surgeon
comes in debulks already that patient
will have a a an advantage to survive
better just because the surgeon was able
to take more how do I know that because
we did the experiments here in the lab
we calculated all the angiogen the bad
blood vessels the inflammation we
measured all the biomarkers and
biochemical readouts for these things
and we can see it the demarcation comes
really sharp inflammation goes down
angiogenesis goes down which is abnormal
blood vessel development so you have all
of the markers and some of the tumor
cells start to die so all of this is
really favorable therapeutic response if
you have a watchful waiting period so
then the surgeon takes it out and then
after the surgeon would take it out you
would then transition back onto
metabolic therapy and there's number of
different drugs that we can use to
facilitate calorie restricted ketogenic
diets water only fasting these drugs are
designed to specifically Target the
glucose and glutamine Pathways in those
tumor cells while not harming any of the
normal cells of the body so you don't
have noisy of vomiting diarrhea hair
loss all this crazy stuff you know
you're going specifically at the heart
of what those tumor cells need to
survive and then you hope for the best
and and we're not like our one patient
Pablo Kelly who has a website talks
about his survival over eight years now
his tumor is not cured it continues to
grow but it was made indolent so every
three or four years he has a debulking
surgery and goes back about his life so
I think I think a lot of people think we
should cure can we of course everybody
would like to cure cancer but the second
best thing is learning to live with it
if you had a terminal cancer and you're
not in terminal you might be at some
point but you're out living by by long
periods what you would have been
expected to live what's wrong with that
so uh in other words can you have
effective management with maintaining a
high quality of life and maybe you
eventually will die from this tumor but
you won't die in the time frame that 98
percent of the people are dying and
you're going to live a lot longer so the
idea is this is a very new strategy for
managing cancer is it perfected no do we
understand the problems yes can we
Define design strategies to deal with
the problems absolutely so it's a work
in progress but in the end you want GBM
patients to survive a minimum of five
years not of two people surviving after
five years you want them you want at
least half of the patients to be alive
at five years and that's not what we're
seeing today and I can go through the
list of every major cancer breast cancer
colon cancer bladder cancer liver cancer
they're all they all have the same
problem they need glucose and glutamine
we found that we know that we know that
so it's a singular strategy tweaked a
little bit different for each type of
cancer but it's basically the same
strategy this is not what people what
the industry wants to hear believe me so
when we go to cut off the glucose Supply
which is feeding the cancer cell and
allowing them to ferment and make more
energy
you mentioned their water fasting in the
ketogenic diet
I'm curious for somebody who does decide
to take on one of those as the dietary
piece to address that part of the cancer
is there a difference in the research
showing one being better than the other
obviously the water fasting is more
extreme
is it more effective to go that extreme
no
um there's we use the glucose Ketone
index calculator which we published here
that gives the patient every patient
with cancer can then know how they stand
so it's a meter you can buy it on Amazon
a keto Mojo glucose Ketone index meter a
meter that measures blood sugar you
prick your finger like a diabetic would
you measure with a strip you can measure
your blood sugar you put it you put the
strip in the meter reads the sugar okay
squeeze your finger a little bit more
put the Ketone strip put that in the
meter it tells you what your ketones are
you push the button and you get a ratio
of how much Ketone to glucose is in the
blood and normally people would look at
that on a right after their lunch or
dinner or whatever and you'd have a
value of about 50 or 60. okay to manage
cancer you need a value of 2.0 or below
okay people say oh man I don't know if I
can get they eat this and go can I eat
that can I eat this I don't know why
don't you check your gki your glucose
Ketone index and see whether you can eat
that and they said oh no it went up to
20. I well don't eat that so it's not
that hard and then they they'll come and
say oh oh man it's really really hard to
to get my blood sugars down and my
ketones up and I said well I I said you
want to kill cancer cells
what's your plan here it's not easy well
don't you know I don't want people to
think I'll tell you it's a hell of a lot
easier sitting down in in the in the uh
oncology thing and getting infused with
poison you don't have to do anything you
just sit in a lounge chair and they just
drain it into your bloodstream doing
metabolic therapy requires a big part on
a big a f emphasis effort on your part
the patient has to play a major role in
the management of the disease otherwise
it's not going to work
so uh when the patient can get down into
that low or that low gki value then the
patient becomes uh uh now the next step
is use specific drugs that work better
against the glucose and glutamine
together so you got the diet on the one
side uh making you healthier putting
pressure on the tumor cells but then you
hit them with low doses of a variety of
other and some of that can be low-dose
chemo by the way and then you just mail
start hammering these tumor cells out of
existence so uh and the degrade them
slowly while you continue to be healthy
uh none of this hair loss vomiting and
all this other stuff the tumor cells
cannot survive in these harsh and
metabolic environments you're doing it
by lowering your sugar and you then you
take small doses of like repurposed
drugs and things like we already listed
some of these and more of them are
becoming recognized so um you don't you
don't need to spend a lot of money now
as I said uh you don't need to suffer
with a lot of toxicity is it easy no if
I had I know what I'd have to do but do
you think I'm going to be saying oh Mal
I can't eat donuts and rice and bread
okay well that might be the part of your
sacrifice and what a lot of people do
they dovetail it in with prayer whatever
religion they are they pray and that
helps them uh avoid bread and in other
words it gives them more motivation to
to participate in their own healing
process what we found is that the human
body has incredible capacity to heal
itself if given the opportunity so when
you give your body the opportunity to
heal it will heal it's hard to heal when
you're being irradiated it and treated
with drugs that are poisonous it's hard
for the body to Rally against that so I
think we have to change this whole
Paradigm by the way cancer is treated
and we can get much better success than
what we have currently today one point I
want to highlight there the fact that
blood glucose is still going to be
elevated to a point even if we're
fasting doing water fasting over a
longer period of time we're still going
to maintain a relative level of blood
glucose which for me triggers in my mind
it's not like you're having rice or a
donut and spiking that blood glucose but
you still have that Baseline level no
matter what you're doing
how is that not enough to facilitate
fuel for the cancer cells
yeah so it becomes it's a very it's it's
a population Dynamics issue okay when
you have a high enough level of blood
sugar from eating
um uh carbohydrates or whatever uh the
brain is is satiated uh most of the
other cells in your body Associated you
already have a massive amount of excess
glucose because you're eating foods that
produce glucose so if you stop eating
from foods that produce glucose your
body now has to replace the glucose with
something else and they mobilize fats
and the fats go to the liver and the
liver uh produces Ketone bodies but the
liver will also produce glucose through
the process of gluconeogenesis but
gluconeogenesis cannot make up the need
for how much glucose your brain needs so
there's going to be a shortage so what's
going to happen then is your brain is
going to take what little glucose is
available
to do it so and then replace the rest of
it with Ketone bodies so this deprives
the cells the other cells in your body
of of of glucose and other cells in the
body now also increase their demand for
this glucose because glucose is a good
fuel for a lot of things so you come now
the tumor cells which absolutely must
have that fuel are now competing with
all other cells that also want the same
fuel but they wouldn't have competed
with the tumor cells when the glucose
was so high so the tumor cells were free
to do what they want to do you lower the
blood sugar now these cells are in
direct competition with other cells in
the body and eventually they start to
lose the fight they they need the
glucose these other guys can burn
ketones and glucose these guys can't
burn the ketones they can't burn fatty
acids so they're they're they're linked
to two fuels one is them is glucose and
the other is this glutamine which is an
amino acid which is the most abundant
amino acid in the body no diet can
Target the availability of the glutamine
that's why you you have to come in with
a little bit of a drug that will push
that glutamine down thereby starving
these tumor cells of the two key fuels
that they need so you need to know how
to play the normal cells off the tumor
cells you need to know how to
reconstruct the energy
bioenergetic system in the body so that
the tumor cells are now in a fight for
their life for their struggle where the
rest of the body can transition off to
another fuel
this is the way the strategy that that
we that we can use so the other thing
you have to realize that no one denies
is that all the tumor cells have
thousands of mutations everybody knows
that they have mutations because their
energy is inefficient they perform these
reactive oxygen species causing
mutations in the DNA so when you have a
cells all these tumor cells full of
genetic mutations and now you're taking
the whole body and putting it into a
into an energetic restricted State
normal cells evolved over millions of
years to adapt to these restricted
States they make great efficiency at a
small availability of molecules that can
be respired in the environment the tumor
cell has all these mutations it traps
them it prevents them from making rapid
adaptations because the mutations block
all of the they have no metabolic
flexibility so that then puts them at a
massive competitive disadvantage when
they're up against the normal cells that
have this metabolic flexibility so you
put all that together lack of metabolic
flexibility restriction of the two fuels
that are absolutely essential for their
existence and you target this while
you're transitioning over and these
tumor cells are gradually eliminated and
degraded slowly and the and the in the
material used from these dead tumor
cells is now recycled into the normal
cells of the body the body will turn and
eat the tumor cells as part of the fuel
when you have under these it's
unbelievable it's when you understand
when you understand the bioenergetics of
your body and what it's capable of doing
you know how these tumor cells can be
blasted uh very effectively by just
using a few uh strategies that is based
on evolutionary biology and
understanding of the biology of the
tumor
he talked about the genetic mutations
within the tumor and for anybody that
might be confused because early on in
our conversation we said that that's the
current Paradigm that doctors go by the
genetic mutations
well we're saying we're not denying
there are genetic mutations it's the
fact that we're going more Upstream and
saying that those are just a factor that
happens later on not the actual cause at
the very top
completely correct
um they collect and the more the tumor
is aggressive the more mutations they
they collect but those mutations also
block metabolic adaptation so as soon as
you start restricting the two fuels
absolutely essential for the growth of
the tumor the viability of the tumor
those tumor cells lack the ability to
get energy from oxygen that's the key
the tumor cell can get cannot get energy
from oxygen it can only get energy from
uh what we call substrate level
phosphorylation it's a not it's a it's a
form of energy that doesn't require
oxygen okay so it's an ancient pathway
all the cells that existed on the planet
before oxygen came into the atmosphere
used this same energy mechanism energy
without oxygen this is very interesting
because because tumor cells as I said
what on a Warburg did years ago uh with
animals that had tumors uh he would give
the animals cyanide which kills the
animal immediately but the tumor cells
aren't killed the tumor cells can grow
inside cyanide they can grow without
oxygen so that clearly tells you these
wow you mean to tell me a tumor cell can
grow in cyanide I said yeah we've done
it so cyanide kills people instantly but
the tumor cell is not killed by the
cyanide why is that because it's not
using oxygen it's using ancient Pathways
to get energy what are those Pathways
well it's a fermentation mechanism wow
what are the glycolysis in the cytoplasm
glutamanolysis into mitochondria so we
know exactly what Pathways these tumor
cells are using and I said well how do
you know that because we we targeted
those Pathways kills the tumors right
away it's not it's not that complicated
people oh wow you so many because the
field is saying okay you've got ten
thousand mutations in there our
Precision medicine is going to Target
one of those mutations or a couple of
them that's not going to work it's got a
h tumor cell is different constellation
and mutations so it's it's definitely
not going to work it doesn't work for
the majority of people as a matter of
fact some of those targeted mutations
turn on the body and blow out your liver
blow out your kidneys they can kill you
faster than the tumor can kill you if
you have the same epitope on a normal
cell uh that you thought was only on the
tumor cell so when you give them this
immunotherapy it not only will hit a few
of those tumor cells with that marker
but it also starts knocking out your
liver and kidney that have that same
mark so um what we see it's called hyper
Progressive disease it's something you
see in you know um when you see on TV at
night all the commercials for all these
cancer things uh and on the bottom it
could kill you in 15 different ways
they make that real small that part real
small that should be the number one part
this drug will kill you in 15 different
ways but you might be one of the few
ones that are lucky to survive
it's a crazy world it's crazy world man
but you got to live with it you know
coming back to the dietary piece so
your research shows we either want to
adopt a ketogenic diet or go to water
fasting when it comes to fighting cancer
and we know what that's doing so far we
talked about it cuts off the fuel supply
of the glucose to the cancer my question
is when we get into that state of
ketosis through either of those means
are the ketones themselves part of the
therapy are they attacking or causing an
environment that the cancer doesn't like
yeah that's a good point we tried that
um you the cancer cells can grow
um in the present key so we as long as
we have glucose and glutamine there you
can put ketones in there okay you have
to get to really really high levels like
10 millimolar before the K the ketones
might act as a toxic and the body human
body is hard to get up to 10 millimolar
so uh most people are in two to four and
maybe if they're lucky one to three up
to five millimolar maybe a little higher
um the per the role of the primary role
of the Ketone bodies is to enhance the
energetic efficiency of normal cells in
the body so the that's their primary
role also by elevating ketones it allows
the body to push blood sugars down as
low as you possibly can get because you
because you can even shoot up insulin
into a person who is in therapeutic
ketosis like like for example
um if you take a person and shoot them
up with a high dose of insulin they they
go unconscious now have an epileptic
seizure and possibly could die because
you've removed all of the sugar in the
blood immediately so the brain has no
energy and you go unconscious if you
take those same people and put them in
therapeutic ketosis like drenick did is
drenick and and had their ketones
elevated to about four millimolar and
then shot them up with a high dose of
insulin nothing there's no no effect at
all why because the ketones were
replacing the glucose as the fuel for
the brain so as long as you can
transition the brain can switch from
glucose to Ketone bodies the tumor cell
cannot switch from glucose to Ketone
bodies why because you need a good
mitochondria mitochondria is the
organelle that gets energy from oxygen
and that organelle is busted the
inefficient and broken oxidative
phosphorylation part of that organelle
is broken so they can't use ketones or
fatty acids because you can't you need a
good healthy mitochondria to use those
so once you know the biology of the
cancer cell and the biology of the
normal cells you just play one group of
cells off the other in the correct
metabolic environment and the tumor
cells lose every time when it comes to
that experiment you talked about where
somebody's in ketosis and they're able
to use insulin to really bring that
glucose down was that just a thought
experiment or is that actually been done
and if so is that something that can be
therapeutic
to even cut off that fuel supply even
more to the cancer cells it might be
um I have the paper adrenic look it up
you know it's I I I couldn't believe it
he took all these really obese people
massively obese and put them on a water
only fast for 21 days uh brought their
blood sugars down and their ketones up
and then shot them up with insulin
bringing the blood sugar down to 0.5
millimolar nine milligrams per decalet
that's death for anybody that doesn't is
that's not in ketosis those people are
fine they didn't even have any cognitive
changes at all so it was absolutely
proven that you can do this you can push
play the blood as long as you are in
ketosis you're protected against the the
effects of low hypoglycemia you go to
the hospitals and you say oh you got to
get your cancer patients down into about
55 to 65 milligrams oh no that's going
to kill them you don't know about the
keto you don't know how to do this I
mean you guys are medical professionals
you should know how to play these organs
and these Systems off each other to be
successful in the treatment to the
disease so getting back to your question
about can insulin potentiation therapy
be uh one of the procedures that could
use you know I don't know I know are
some of our colleagues in Istanbul use
it some people have said they've gotten
a really good uh results as the result
of that but you've got to make sure your
patients are in therapeutic ketosis
nutritional ketosis before you would
want to mess around with that also
you've got to realize that this is not a
long-term uh situation they they showed
how long does it how long does the
patient survive in this very very low
glucose condition using insulin and and
you're talking about you know several
hours you're not talking about several
days you in order to kill the cancer
cells you really need to apply the
pressure constantly over a significant
period of time where they're gradually
degraded and gradually broken down and
and and gradually managed insulin will
kill a lot of cells maybe right off the
bat but it's not going to be
um it's not going to be I I don't think
it it's it might be used occasionally a
little bit of a pulse but I'm not going
to bank using it and also you got to be
careful if your patients aren't in
ketosis when you do that you could run
the risk of harm
um you know there's a lot of things one
has to be cognizant of uh before you
would want to do that but the answer to
your question is yeah you can lower
blood sugar down to almost zero uh with
an insulin potentiation therapy while
the patient is in ketosis not when the
patient is not in ketosis you would
never ever do something like that the
other potential challenge I can see with
using that insulin with a cancer patient
is the fact that we know that's a growth
hormone and I'm curious how you know
that might be able to affect the growth
of cancer
well as I said you can't grow without
energy energy is the key you have two
things you have metabolites for growth
but you also have the energy you can
have all the metabolites in the world
but you don't have the energy to use
them you're going to die so everything
comes back to energy so you have to have
two things to grow cancer cells you have
to have energy and you have to have
metabolites so you have the metabolites
and the energy and you'll be able to
grow these cells so both the glucose and
the glutamine not only provide the
energy together they also provide the
metabolites the nitrogen from glutamine
is necessary for DNA and RNA synthesis
and the synthesis of all amino acids the
carbons from glucose are absolutely
essential for running the pentose
phosphate pathway and providing the raw
material for the synthesis of proteins
lipids and nucleic acids so you put all
those the carbons from those two fuels
are absolutely essential for the growth
of those tumor cells they can't use
anything else and any sufficient
capability and in order to grow an
inefficient Beast a growing tumor cell
which is highly energetic inefficient
you have to have Logistics the supply of
the fuels used for their fermentation
mechanism have to be present in the
environment in sufficient quantities to
drive the Beast because because you need
a lot of fuel that is inefficient okay
so if that's the key you have two fuels
that are necessary that are abundant in
the micro environment and the cancer
cell will be able to grow and be
resistant to almost everything you throw
at it but if you take away those two
fuels and clean up the the environment
these cells now become extremely
vulnerable uh for killing and management
without toxicity coming back to my
question earlier about the ketones and
if they have a therapeutic role in this
it gets me thinking about exogenous
ketones and I know you mentioned there
it would have to be this really high
level of ketones in the body before they
would be toxic to cancer I'm curious has
there been any research or testing done
of using this exogenous Ketone ketones
yeah as a way of you know an adjunct to
therapy yeah I'm D'Agostino my friend
from University of South Florida is
developing these Ketone uh uh
supplements that you could possibly use
and what we're finding is that if you do
get yourself into a state of therapeutic
ketosis where
um your Ketone levels are about three to
four millimolar and your blood sugar
level is maybe 50 or 60 milligrams per
deciliter when you take the Ketone
supplements your blood sugar can be
pushed to even a lower grade degree and
uh your ketones can be even elevated to
to a higher level again putting more
pressure on the tumor cells
um but we haven't worked yet that into a
therapeutic strategy
it's it's based on dosage timing and
scheduling and in order to fully fully
take advantage of exogenous ketones we
we need to follow more uh patients uh
and measure their blood sugar and
ketones while we are monitoring their
tumor non-invasively uh either by pet
analysis or by MRI or CAT scan or some
of these non-invasive ways uh monitoring
if there's a linkage between visual
visible shrinkage of the tumor linked to
levels of blood sugar and ketones in the
patient so we can then get more
quantitative information with respect to
that and as far as I know hasn't been
done yet you know right now we're just
in the process of of how long can we
keep a patient alive with a high quality
of life
um based on our Concepts but it's going
to take more clinical and pre-clinical
research to get the exact answer to your
question
so we've talked about the dietary piece
quite a bit now through the glucose half
of the equation when it comes to
glutamine
let's talk about the different drug
options there and the physiology of how
that
stops that fuel from being used by the
cancer yeah well um there's several ways
glutamine is the most abundant amino
acid in the body
um higher than any other amino acid in
the bloodstream it's an absolutely they
call it a non-essential amino acid
because you can synthesize it from
glucose uh it's essential for
neurotransmission in the brain the
glutamine glutamate cycle so it's a very
crucial uh metabolite amino acid in in
the brain for keeping our neurons firing
in a correct way it's an absolutely
essential metabolite for cells of our
immune system like macrophages T cells
and B cells the cells of our immune
system uh require a lot of glutamine and
of course in our gut our gut the health
of our guts uh Crypt cells and all these
kinds of cells in our intestines they're
also big users of of the glutamine So
when you say okay we're got to try to
talk cancer cells also the metastatic
cancer cell the metastatic cancer cell
is a big
consumer of glutamine because the
metastatic cell as we and others have
shown is actually derived from an immune
cell in our body called the macrophage
it's a fusion hybridization kind of a
thing so they spread through the body
but they also sit next to immune cells
they suppress immune cells but they're
also consuming glutamine so how do we go
after the glutamine in the cancer cell
without harming the the the normal cells
that also need the glutamine this is why
we use the press the pulse strategy okay
so we press the whole body of glucose
raising ketones lowering glucose as a
constant press on the cancer cells so
they become less aggressive more
indolent less inflamed and then we take
low doses of glutamine Inhibitors that
can inhibit any part of the
glutamanolysis pathway coming from the
bringing into glutamine metabolizing it
to glutamate metabolizing it to
alpha-ketoglutarate to succinyl COA to
succinate there's a pathway and this is
the pathway by which the cancer cells
use to get their energy
so we can hit that pathway at any one of
these steps but we have to do it in a
very strategic way as to not harm normal
cells that need that same pathway so
that's why we pulse small doses of this
as we keep we got the cancer cells in a
metabolic Chokehold but we're not yet
we're not ready to kill them yet but we
got to hit them with a little pulse and
eventually they'll expire but you got to
do it in such a way as to not harm this
is why you need a fundamental
understanding of biology
you need to understand the biology of
all the key players that are
participating participatory in the
eventual management of the disease so
you can't go in there like a bull in a
china shop and just you know pour
chemicals and poisons and radiation and
all this kind of crazy you can get
rid of some cancer like that for sure
but you really can do it in a hell of a
lot easier way more strategic and less
toxic if you understand how to play
these Pathways off of each other and the
different kinds of cells that are in the
tumor micro environment and eventually
you degrade the tumors down to a point
where they become assimilated and used
for fuel by the rest of the cells so
you're absolutely right you can't throw
a whole bunch of glutamine targeting
drugs sure you're going to kill some
cancer cells but then you're going to
paralyze your immune system because once
you kill a bunch of cancer cells who's
going to come in and pick up the dead
bodies of the cancer cells you get a
whole bunch of corpse dead corpses of
cells where that tumor used to be and if
you don't get rid of them bacteria can
get in there cause some infection you
get got another problem on your hands so
you got to be able to do this in a
logical strategic way to get rid of the
tumor cells I mean all of this becomes
extremely uh comprehensible when you
understand the biology of the key
players that are that are participatory
in the growth of this malignancy so
again
um you know it's just that we've been
doing this for a long time we studied
the biology of all the different
participants in the micro environment we
study who's who's doing what in these
cancer cells why they're spreading how
can they not how do we kill them and uh
and you know we're seeing success in
people and in dogs you know we're
starting to see success in our strategy
and it's just a matter of polishing it
up and perfecting it to get a real uh a
real strategic way of dealing with this
problem
so when it comes to order of treatment
correct me if I'm wrong but it's to get
into ketogenic a ketogenic State before
you start pulsing the dawn
yes yes because because we showed in our
Publications that we could get three
times more uh glutamine targeting drug
uh through the blood-brain barrier onto
Target when the drug was admit would be
administered under therapeutic ketosis
so if you try to administer the drug in
a in a high carbohydrate diet America
what American Standard diet or whatever
you only get a little bit of drug On
Target therefore you have to use a lot
more of the drug and when you use a lot
more of the drug you risk the toxicity
issues that can come with the use of any
drug given in excessive amounts so what
you want to do is you want to make that
drug super powerful in lowest doses
possible and that is what the
therapeutic ketosis does it allows small
molecules to come right on target low
dose massively more powerful than they
would have been if they were not used
this is another thing I don't understand
the biology of the problem
to make your success much greater than
it would have been
again nobody what I'm talking to you
about almost nobody in the field knows
anything that I'm saying here and how do
I know that because they're not using
these techniques and there's in their
clinics if they if they understood what
I'm saying they would be transitioning
over to this immediately but they're not
why I never heard of this before oh I
didn't know about you go ask them oh I
didn't know no there's no evidence to
support did you read the paper no I
didn't read the paper then how do you
know there's no evidence to support that
you can go right down the list you know
and you have to give these guys a break
too these oncologists they were never
trained to look at bio cancer this way
they're memorizing all kinds of stuff
you know knowing how to use chemicals
and radiation so you don't kill your
poor patient they're not looking at the
biological strategies for knowing how to
kill cancer cells without toxicity they
were never trained in the medical
schools to know how to use diets and
drugs combos of diets and drugs to to
manage these things so so it's it's a
lack of knowledge lack of training uh no
motivation I mean you put it all
together and and you don't get what I'm
telling you you don't get that applied
in the clinic one of the big things that
jumps out to me too is you talk about
doctors is the fact that even if say
they tune into an interview like this
and become aware read your book
they have the legal ramifications if
they try something alternative like this
so
the way I understand it at least and I'm
no lawyer is that they're sort of
handcuffed in a way to follow a certain
protocol
or the college is going to crack down on
them so
that's another whole layer to this
that's another whole layer that's what
I'm talking about no flexibility in the
standard of care the standard of care
was never written in Granite it's only
supposed to be used because based on
best medical practices and outcome it
should be used until something better
comes along
something better is here but why now can
you not use it then you have to say oh
there's something other than patient
outcome that must be underlying the lack
of ability to use this new uh approach
to managing cancer so that becomes a
different level of Investigation you
know why why they don't want to do this
uh what are the real reasons for not
wanting to do this and I told you at the
beginning there's a number of reasons
why people can't do that
um yeah the hospital administrators
um you know you have to look at bottom
lines and budgets and all this kind of
stuff I mean you're going to bring in a
a treatment protocol that's not going to
generate the revenue that you got from
something else then we got we got to
reevaluate whether we want to do that or
not uh people say wow you sure about
that go ahead
go find out why you can't use metabolic
therapy as a standalone next to oh no
can't do that why it doesn't go through
the institutional review board we have a
group of Physicians on institutional
review boards that have to make the
decision they'll allow metabolic therapy
under certain cases as long as it's done
concurrently with the standard of care
the standard of care is your problem
so you got to get rid of the standings
not working the standard of care for
brain Care at least for brain
glutoblastoma it's not working it's not
working for advanced lung cancer it's
not working for Advanced Breast Cancer
it's not working for a systemic
metastatic cancer the standards of care
are not working and that's what's
killing the majority allowing these poor
people to be dead so when are we going
to shift this standard of care away from
these toxic strategies not based on the
underlying biology of the disease that's
a question people have to ask themselves
right well this like you said ties back
to what we were talking about earlier
the fact that
therapy is like you're talking about not
only have to overcome the cancer but
also the conventional treatment that has
to be stacked on top of it so it's yeah
we're coming full circle here yes you're
coming full circle and the biggest thing
they always say is ketogenic diet safe
is ketogenic metabolic is metabolic
therapy safe they're always worrying
about the safety issue are you kidding
me you're telling me that a calorie
restricted ketogenic diet is more
harmful to the body than high-dose
radiation and chemo they should be
asking whether radiation and chemo is
safe not whether whether a metabolic
diet is safe I mean it's completely
upside down right I mean it makes no
sense
um oh it's ketogenic we have thousands
of little kids using ketogenic diet
therapy for managing seizures right
thousands of kids all over the world
using it to manage epileptic seizures
and now we try it again oh no we got to
be careful it might not be safe for the
cancer patient because relative to what
radiation and chemo I mean let's see the
absurdity of some of these things is
just beyond my comprehension well
speaking of safety that gets me thinking
about diet where
we've talked about to this point where
we're cutting things out we're getting
into ketosis and then we're adding this
drug in which again triggers in my mind
how do we make this even less invasive
and potentially safer and that's instead
of using the dawn to have a food or a
substance extracted from food that could
do the same thing so anything in that
realm that you've discovered or anything
promising where you could see
a food or an extract from food taking
the place of the drug yeah well for
glutamine not yet
um for glutamine not yet now we have a
paper
under review
uh with a dog
that has a medicine a malignant
mast cell tumor on his face and I've in
some of my lectures I've shown pictures
of that dog
um that was kind of a surprising case uh
because
um the the owner the what they call pet
parent uh brought the dog into the um uh
the vet clinic and they just they
discovered under its lip it had a it had
a mast cell tumor they did a biopsy on
it and um it was a mast cell tumor so if
you look in the in the literature uh on
mast cell tumors and dogs that when they
do genomic screens they find a lot of
all kinds of mutations in the cells in
mast cell tumor so it's like just about
all the other kinds of tumors you see
all kinds of all kinds of mutations so
um they wanted to give the the
recommendation was chemo and radiation
like you know these are the standard
things that they would do uh the pet
parents said no they didn't want to do
any of that because the outcome uh would
not always be guaranteed and their pet
would be uh injured it would be very
sick they they said this dog would be
very sick and may not your outcome may
not be a cure so she said well I don't
want to do that I'm just going to figure
out on my own so she went back the owner
in fact all this is written in the paper
that hopefully will it's under review
right now but some of the reviews are
pretty good so I anticipate that it'll
be out at some point
um
she switched the dog to a raw vegetable
diet okay so uh for a year a little over
a year and the tumor grew much bigger
okay on this raw vegetable diet so
clearly the raw vegetable diet was not
working
um and the tumor became very noticeable
and large and started to invade local
local area meaning that it is malignant
in fact it was malignant by invading
local tissue when it was very when it
was first diagnosed as a smaller growth
and then the raw vegetable diet made it
much bigger
um then she read our work and recognized
that the dog is a descendant of the wolf
all dogs are derived from the wolf uh
what does the wolf eat the wolf eats raw
meat uh the wolf can eat anything but
vegetables so uh they took all the
vegetables away from the dog and gave
the dog raw chicken uh uh fish oil a raw
egg and some coconut oil small amounts
teaspoon tablespoon levels and the boy
the dog uh was calorie restricted it
lost them only about eight or ten
percent of its body weight and within uh
three months this big ass tumor was like
gone
um which was remarkable and we used no
drugs there was no there was no uh extra
drugs used it was purely diet alone that
did this and people are asking well if
you're talking about the glutamine how
is it possible that this big tumor could
be resolved in a relatively short period
of time without additional drugs
um and the answer is you know we don't
really know uh all we know is that the
tumor was growing rapidly and big and
the rapid change in diet caused it to
resolve completely and the dog which was
a pit bull uh died at 15 years of age
from heart failure and and the tumor
never never returned the tumor was
eliminated in 2015 and the dog lived to
2019. so clearly it was cured of its
cancer
um the question is how do you explain uh
radical remission of this tumor without
using the drugs that we think would be
more successful and the answer is we're
not really a hundred percent sure but it
comes back to the fact that those mast
cell tumors cells are loaded with
mutations which as I said block
metabolic adaptation so the tumor cells
with their mutations can't could not uh
redirect their metabolism when the sugar
when the when the body was asked to be
under a more restrictive metabolic State
those cells were unable obviously were
unable to adjust and that's where these
collection of mutations in the tumor
cells could be our Ally when we start to
put the whole body under a restrictive
State dogs have an incredibly capable
adaptation to physiological stress and
if you have a cell loaded with mutations
that cell will not have those capacities
and will be eliminated for fuel for the
rest of the body
um so this is what we call autolytic
cannibalism can it happen in people
probably for some kinds of tumors will
it happen for a glioblastoma I don't
think so but maybe it could we don't
know but if it were me and I were the
one to have uh colon cancer bladder
cancer or whatever I would certainly use
some of the very non-toxic drugs that I
know would push the diet to make it a
little bit more powerful I'm not going
to risk my life knowing that I have
drugs available that I can use that are
not so toxic and that could push these
cancer cells out of existence a little
faster is it possible that I could go on
a 30-day water only fast which people do
and eliminate the cancer yes it's
possible I have evidence from Clinical
clinicians who have emailed me and told
me that their cancers were completely
dissolved after 25 days of water several
water only fasts like this well this is
really tough I think most americ most
people would probably figure out can I
get that done a little bit easier do you
have a drug that might be able to push
it a little bit faster and the answer is
yes if people want to try a 21 day water
only fast three times a year to get rid
of their cancer I'm not going to stop
them I I I've seen it work but it's not
but if you told the cancer patient that
they think you were crazy
um even oncologists think you're crazy
to recommend something like that but it
works but I wouldn't say it's something
that everybody is going to jump on
especially if they have an opportunity
to lessen lessen the stress people don't
people don't they feel oh Jesus but but
you can do all these things yeah they
work I mean probably work on some people
worked on guy Tanenbaum he's on the web
he's he did all these water only fasts
he got rid of his Advanced prostate
cancer so I'm not saying that's going to
work for everybody but I would certainly
want to integrate diet with drugs where
I know I have some handle on the whole
thing and and that would to me would be
a more logical way to go about it that's
exactly where I was going I'm glad you
covered that though to compare water
fasting versus the treatment protocol
we've been talking about yeah I mean
sure they they can work I'm not going to
because I have hard evidence that it
does work but it's not something a lot
of people are going to jump on right
away
if you enjoyed that clip press here for
the full episode I'll see you over there
what I'm talking to you about almost
nobody in the field knows anything that
I'm saying here and how do I know that
because they're not using these
techniques and there's in their clinics
if they if they understood what I'm
saying they would be transitioning over
to this immediately